1
Download the Ubuntu ISO file. You can get the ISO file from the Ubuntu website. An ISO file is a CD image file that will need to be burned before you can use it. There are two options available from the Ubuntu website (you can also buy official Ubuntu CDs, which come in packs of 10):
16.04 LTS has continuous updates and provides technical support. It is scheduled to be supported until April 2021. This option will give you the most compatibility with your existing hardware.
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 1Bullet1
Ubuntu builds (not yet released) 16.10, 17.04, and 17.10 will come with limited support. They will have the newest features, though they may not work with all hardware. These releases are geared more towards experienced Linux users.
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 1Bullet2
If you have a Windows 8 or 10 PC or a PC with UEFI firmware, download the 64-bit version of Ubuntu. Most older machines should download the 32-bit version.
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 1Bullet3
Image titled Install Linux Step 1Bullet2
2
Burn the ISO file. Open up your burning program of choice. There are free and paid programs available that can burn an ISO to a CD or DVD.
Windows 7, 8, 10, and Mac OS X can all burn ISO files to a disc without having to download a separate program.
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 2Bullet1
Image titled Install Linux Step 2Bullet3
3
Boot from the disc. Once you have finished burning the disc, restart your computer and choose to boot from the disc. You may have to change your boot preferences by hitting the Setup key while your computer is restarting. This is typically F12, F2, or Del.
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 4
4
Try Ubuntu before installing. Once you boot from the disc, you will be given the option to try Ubuntu without installing it. The operating system will run from the disc, and you will have a chance to explore the layout of the operating system.
Open the Examples folder to see how Ubuntu handles files and exploring the operating system.
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 4Bullet1
Once you are done exploring, open the Install file on the desktop.
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 4Bullet2
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 5
5
Install Ubuntu. Your computer will need at least 4.5 GB of free space. You will want more than this if you want to install programs and create files. If you are installing on a laptop, make sure that it is connected to a power source, as installing can drain the battery faster than normal.
Check the “Download updates automatically” box, as well as the “Install this third-party software” box. The third-party software will allow you to play MP3 files as well as watch Flash video (such as YouTube).
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 5Bullet1
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 6
6
Set up the wireless connection. If your computer is not connected to the internet via Ethernet, you can configure your wireless connection in the next step.
If you didn’t have an internet connection in the previous step, hit the Back button after setting up the wireless connection so that you can enable automatic updates.
7
Choose what to do with your existing operating system. If you have Windows installed on your system, you will be given a couple options on how you’d like to install Ubuntu. You can either install it alongside your previous Windows installation, or you can replace your Windows installation with Ubuntu.
If you install it alongside your old version of Windows, you will be given the option to choose your operating system each time you reboot your computer. Your Windows files and programs will remain untouched.
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 7Bullet1
If you replace your installation of Windows with Ubuntu all of your Windows files, documents, and programs will be deleted.
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 7Bullet2
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 8
8
Set your partition size. If you are installing Ubuntu alongside Windows, you can use the slider to adjust how much space you would like to designate for Ubuntu. Remember that Ubuntu will take up about 4.5 GB when it is installed, so be sure to leave some extra space for programs and files.
Once you are satisfied with your settings, click Install Now.
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 8Bullet1
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 9
9
Choose your location. If you are connected to the internet, this should be done automatically. Verify that the timezone displayed is correct, and then click the Continue button.
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 10
10
Set your keyboard layout. You can choose from a list of options, or click the Detect Keyboard Layout button to have Ubuntu automatically pick the correct option.
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 11
11
Enter your login information. Enter your name, the name of the computer (which will be displayed on the network), choose a username, and come up with a password. You can choose to have Ubuntu automatically log you in, or require your username and password when it starts.
Image titled Install Ubuntu Linux Step 12
12
Wait for the installation process to complete. Once you choose your login info, the installation will begin. During setup, various tips for using Ubuntu will be displayed on the screen. Once it is finished, you will be prompted to restart the computer and Ubuntu will load.